Before we get into any c++
code that uses pointers,
let's see what a pointer is.
A pointer is a variable.
Okay, we know all about variables.
Variables have an address in
memory where they're bound to.
They also have a type, such as int,
double, string, vector and so forth.
And they have a value,
which they store.
A pointer is a variable and
it stores the address of
another variable or function.
So if I initialize an integer
variable named x to 10 then
x is of type integer and it's
bound to some memory location,
and it contains the value 10.
That means that I can declare
a pointer variable that
stores the address of x.
So a pointer is a variable.
That means that the pointer has a
memory location where it's bound to.
It has a type, it has a value,
and the value is an address.
We'll see how to declare a
pointer in c++ in the next video.
Remember that a pointer points
to a variable or to a function.
To use the pointer, you must know
the type of what it points to.
Before we learn about how to
use pointers, let's see why we
use pointers in the first place.
If a pointer points to a
variable or a function, can't
i just use the variable or
the function directly, sure.
And if you can, you should.
There is no sense in creating
a pointer to something
that you can use directly.
But you can't always do that.
For example, if you have some complex
data that's defined outside a function
and you want to access that data from
within the function, you can't because
the variable name is out of scope.
So you can pass the data to the
function by value and make a copy
of it or you can use a reference
or a pointer parameter to access
that data from within the function.
Also pointers are often used to
operate on arrays very efficiently.
In fact, we'll see in this
section just how interrelated
pointers and arrays are.
We can use pointers to allocate
memory from the heap or the free
story dynamically at runtime.
That memory doesn't have a
variable name associated with it.
So the only way to use
it is through a pointer.
Finally, if you're working with
embedded systems, device drivers
or other types of system software,
sometimes you need to gain access
to a specific memory address
or a range of memory addresses.
Pointers is the best way to do that.
Okay, now that we know a little
bit more about what a pointer is
and why we would use one, let's
see how we can declare a pointer
variable in the next video.